OK, so continuing from where we left off, I was saying in the last lesson that I would show some additional
techniques to kind of make this maybe a little more readable.
I don't know about that exactly, but probably to make it a little simpler.
Before we jump completely into that, well, no.
So the first thing I want to address is let's talk a little bit more about these capture groups.
So as we saw, we can embed capture groups within capture groups, right?
We can have parentheses within parentheses.
And when we do that, that changes the way that we can address the little the bits inside of the captured
groups that we want to reference.
So for example, down here, we're doing Group two, Group four, six and seven because we wanted,
you know, this second group, which is embedded within the first group here, right?
So that was one and then two and then three right there and then four and then five.
Six and then seven.
Right.
So that's how we were able to get to these.
But there's another thing we could do to make this act.
Well, there's a couple of techniques that we could do to make accessing the actual pertinent bits,
the actual pertinent capture groups that we want a little more straightforward.
So the first technique that I will show for doing this is we can actually tell the regular expression
engine not to fully capture a group.
OK, so a grouping is really just whenever we use the parentheses and by default, whenever we use those
parentheses, the regular expression engine is going to try to remember whatever matched within that
grouping.
But we can actually tell the Rejects engine to not remember certain groupings.
And by doing so, that will affect the numbering of the groupings themselves.
So, for example, this first capture group right here, this one, we don't want that whole thing.
We only want what's inside.
Right.
This this sub capture group.
So we could tell the Rejects engine not to capture, if you will, the outer grouping.
And the way to do that is simply to put on the right on the inside there, right after the opening parentheses
of the group that you don't want.
You'll put a question mark colon just like that.
And so that tells the engine to not remember or to not capture that group that is inside of the parentheses.
So if we go through and do that on all of the capture groups that we don't want to capture, thus thus
turning them into non capture groups, if you will.
So I'll put one there and one here as well looks just like that.
So now what we should have is this capture group becomes one.
This one becomes, too.
This one becomes three and then this one becomes four.
So if we change our numbering now one, two, three and four?
Let's run this and see what we get.
Look at that still works, and now it's a little more straightforward, right?
Simple, simpler, numbering one two three four.
And when you think about it now, this is actually pretty nice because we really didn't want to remember
the outer grouping here.
The only reason we have these parentheses on this outer grouping was so that we could tell the Rejects
engine that we wanted to allow zero or one of that whole pattern, which corresponds to the country
code, right?
So sometimes these parentheses, you don't want to use them for capturing and remembering.
You just want to use them for literally grouping something so that you can then put something like a
quantifier, you know, to to specify how many times that thing should match or something like that.
Right?
But by default, the Rejects engine assumes that not only you may be wanting to use a quantifier, but
you also want to remember whatever was in there so you can turn that off just like that.
And then that has greatly simplified our numbering scheme there.
Right?
OK, now there's another way, and this is, in many cases, actually my preferred way to be able to
access these capture groups.
I'm going to I'm going to go ahead and leave the non capturing on, though, just because we already
have it here and I'm lazy.
But there's another way that we can get to the capture groups that we actually care about.
And that is that is a technique where we can create what are called named capture groups.
So instead of accessing these via numbers, which could change depending on how many capture groups
we have within the regular expression, we could actually give each capture group a name and then reference
them that way.
And then it doesn't matter what order they come in or how many there are, or if you move them around
or something like that.
And so in many cases, that's actually my preferred way to do this.
So let's let's see how to do that now.
All right.
So to do this, what we do, we still use this question mark as a starting point.
So we'll we'll hear.
We'll we'll we'll focus on this first one.
So this first one is the country code, right?
So what we can do is we put our cursor to the right of the opening parentheses for this capture group
that we want to access.
We put a question mark.
But instead of a colon, we use a less than symbol and a greater than symbol just like this.
And then inside of the in-between, rather the less than in greater than symbol, we give it a name.
Now I'm going to use camel case in keeping with the Java standards for naming, but I'm going to name
this something meaningful.
Since this field represents the country code.
I'm going to name this country code camel case with a lowercase C for the first part country and then
a capital C for code write country code.
All right.
And now what I can do is I can come down here to this field for the country code, and instead of passing
in a number, I can pass in a string, which will be that name country code.
So just like that?
Now let's see what happens when we run this.
OK.
It still works, right?
Still works, even though we're now passing in a string instead of a a number.
Now, if we were to pass in a name that isn't referenced up here, so I'll put a couple of digits behind
the name there.
So this is something that does not exist up here now, right?
And we run this.
Let's see what happens.
OK, so it blows up, tells us there is no group with name country code two three.
So yeah, so we know it's really looking at the named Captur Group.
Someone to delete that.
All right.
So let's go ahead and proceed with naming the rest of these and you can do this on your own.
But I'll do it here as well.
Let's see.
So the next capture group that I care about is this one, which is the area code, or at least that's
what I'm calling it.
So again, I'm going to put a question mark.
Less than symbol area code and then close that.
Be careful not to forget these symbols that the opening and the closing, it's super easy to forget
them, and especially since this is so cryptic looking as well.
So just try to make sure you're being really, really careful.
OK, and then the next one goes here and that is the I called it the exchange.
OK, so a question mark.
Less than exchange.
Close that.
And then the last one goes here, and that is the line number, line number and close that.
All right.
And so now down here, I can just reference them area code, but I forgot to put that in quotes.
Now look at this.
Show you another little nice feature of intelligence.
I forgot to put this word around.
Quotes are quotes around it.
I can select that whole string real quick, either with the cursor or while my cursor is anywhere in.
In the word.
I can do an option up arrow or control control W to select a selection in a kind of an expanding direction
there, right?
And then I can just hit shift quote, right?
Like to type a quotation mark and intelligence automatically knows to wrap quotations around that quick
side note.
Now that does not work for you, and instead it just deletes the word and then replaces it with quotes.
That's a setting in the preferences.
And you can go to the preferences.
Hold on.
I'm sorry, I didn't show how I went there.
So on a Mac, you can either go up to the Intel idea and then go to preferences or you can do command
comma.
Let me see what is the I don't know what the keyboard shortcut is on windows to get to the preferences,
but I think it might be under help if I'm not mistaken, or it's either under help or file for the preferences
anyway.
And then you come over here and to the search window and you can search for, I think let's see, is
it wrap OK if you search for surround?
Let's see, and I believe it's under smart keys here.
There's the settings around selection on typing, quote or brace.
So if you have that checked, then you'll get this behavior.
So if you didn't get that behavior in your I.D. and I think by default, it's on in the latest versions
of intelligent.
But if it did not work for you, you might want to come into the preferences and check to see that surround
selection on typing quote or brace is is is selected if you want that.
All right.
So anyway, let's see.
Yeah, so we got that, and then I'll replace this third one here with exchange and then the last one
with line number and then run this again and make sure I didn't break anything.
Looks good.
OK.
So, yeah, like I said, I really kind of prefer to use the named Captur groups for a couple of reasons.
First off, like I said before, it's much less dependent on the order of things and whether or not
you, you know, we're capturing in one place or not or whatever doesn't matter anymore.
And then also, it's a small little bit of text that kind of gives you a little bit more of a hint as
to what's going on in that section of the regular expression, right?
Because look at that.
That's, you know, it's pretty unwieldy.
But now at least you can see the word country code in know, OK, this is the part of the expression
where I'm capturing the country code, area code, exchange line numbers, et cetera.
So that's that's pretty nice.
And I think that's going to wrap up this lesson and I will see you in the next one.